---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-18T02:30:45.875Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-18T02:30:38.822Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-18-1479590a-695c-4a77-9f56-a0c48216d12d.md
published: true
url: 1479590a-695c-4a77-9f56-a0c48216d12d/index.html
_type: Article

---
DIRECTOR OF ENGINEERING, RACKER TOOLS AND DEVELOPER RELATIONS 

Rackspace 

2012 - 2014 

Lead multiple cross functional teams (70 - 100 rackers over the course of my role here) responsible for building out scalable, highly distributed web applications to enable Rackspace support staff to deliver "Fanatical Support" to Rackspace customers. Built out fully a staffed and capable Product Management team, six engineering teams and a dev/ops team. Utilizing cutting edge technologies like MongoDB, Elastic Search and AngularJS, these teams rebuilt our support tools from scratch. In addition to leading our internal tools development efforts, I also took on the responsibility for the Rackspace Developer Relations Group. Grew the DRG from 3 to 28 people in a period of 9 months. Focusing on key hires in the industry, I assembled a top notch team of SDK authors, Evangelists, API Documentation specialists and developer support roles. Oversaw the design and initial build of developer.rackspace.com as well as the more experimental http://rackerlabs.github.io/ Led the release of SDKs and starter kits for the Rackspace Open Cloud in Python, Ruby, .NET, Node and PHP. Oversaw the budget and travel of the evangelists speaking at conferences around the world and saw to the creation of actionable success metrics to measure the performance of the organization 

SENIOR SOFTWARE ARCHITECT 

Rackspace 

2011 - 2012 

Software Architect in the Rackspace Cloud focused on middleware and front end technologies. Control panel interfaces, APIs, and OpenStack. 

FRONT END ENGINEERING ARCHITECT, OPEN SOCIAL PLATFORMS
Yahoo! 

2010 - 2011 

Technical lead for front end architecture of the Yahoo! Open Social platform stack. 

FRONT END ENGINEERING ARCHITECT, YAHOO FINANCE 

Yahoo! 

2008 - 2010 

Tasked with the Front End Tech Lead position for the new global Yahoo! Finance.
Leading the development of XSLT, PHP, CSS, JS, HTML for the biggest and best finance web site on the planet.
Technical lead for new international front end team at Yahoo!
Provided technical leadership to a global team of 10 Front End Engineers
Responsible for the overall architecture decisions for client side code for Yahoo! Finance
Launched 2 new real-time quote projects in rapid succession. Real Time Quote Summary and Real Time Order Book Information
Integrated a front end build process to allow easy development as well as a deployment that follows all 14 of Yahoo!'s Exceptional Performance Guidelines. 

SENIOR TECHNICAL YAHOO!, YAHOO MEDIA GROUP 

Yahoo! 

2005 - 2008 

Front End Engineering Lead, Yahoo! Shine. http://shine.yahoo.com.
Acted as the liaison between Engineering and UED to ensure site design would be highly performant as well as appealing
Provided technical leadership to 5 Front End Engineers, and was responsible for the initial requirements assessment and task scheduling
Integrated a front end build process to allow easy development as well as a deployment that follows all 14 of Yahoo!'s Exceptional Performance Guidelines.
Worked with the YUI team to extend the Rich Text Editor control to allow for image uploads as well as real-time video embedding and preiew 

Project launch: March 31, 2008 

Front End Engineering Lead, Yahoo! Tech http://tech.yahoo.com.
Provided technical leadership to 4 Front End Engineers
Built a full ajax search integration using data from Yahoo! Shopping
Integrated multiple news feeds from Yahoo! News
Built out interactions and UE flourishes on the Quick Guides
Helped build an http web service-based reusable, modular, presentation framework to support several Yahoo! Media web sites.
Recruited by engineering managers across media properties to assist on projects due to excellent performance on Tech team. 

PORTAL USER EXPERIENCE ENGINEER 

SAIC 

2004 - 2005 

Managed front end engineering tasks associated with maintaining an existing company intranet (accessed by 50.000 employees every day)
Provide technical leadership for new feature development.
Designed, built and deployed a semantically correct, standards-based set of html templates for the company intranet
Created all the CSS to control the presentation of the new templates
Mentored existing web team staff in areas such as Javascript development, AJAX, web standards, CSS, etc.
User interface and front end engineering lead on 3 patented web applications for the Air Force